ln lndia, the number of vehicles is constanfly on the rise, while the availability of parking space in cities has not kept pace with the increasing vehicle numbers, primarily due to the rapid groMh in population. Consequenfly, issues such as traffic congestion, narrowed streets due to on-street parking, a mismatch between parking supply and demand, and illegal parking have become all too familiar in lndian cities. Parking space has become a scarce commodity, and instead of simply increasing the number of available parking spaces, it is crucial to employ effective technology-based solutions to optimize their utilization. Smart parking solutions, utilizing sensors and software, can provade realtime information on available parking spaces to both city officials and drivers. Furthermore, leveraging emerging technologies can help optimize parking prices. A low parking price may encourage more vehicles on the road, leading to increased air and noise pollution, whereas too high prices may generate less revenue and less efectuve resource usage.Apart from the loss of revenue for operators, there is economic downside to the business in vicinity, effect on government taxes, employment.At the same parking space area and costs also have a corelation to balance optimum usage and revenue. Therefore, setting the right price for parking based on demand and optimizing occupancy is the best approach. The primary objective of the solution should be to equip city administrators with an effective parking management tool that can predict, manage, and finance parking in cities. An app should be developed to allow citizens to conveniently reserve pce king spots and make payments based on dynamic pricing This not only saves citizens' time spent searching the parking but also reduces environmental degradation resulting from congestion caused by parking and provides a sustainable source of revenue for the city administration. We need an innovative, simple and widely coveraged parking needs in the city and also become most compliant for Traffic and mobility needs.
